#Name: Karl Finnerty
#Student ID: 17428366
			USER MANUAL

This manual will give directions to the use
and operation of myshell.py

			INDEX

1. Internal Commands
2. Executing Commands From Batch File
3. Program Invocation
4. Background Execution
5. Output Redirection

1.			Internal Commands
All internal commands are executed without need of brackets or otherwise.
	pwd 		- print the current working directory

	cd <d>		- change the current directory. Requires directory d as argument. d can be either a full system path or single subdirectory within current working directory.

	dir			- list all subdirectories and files.

	environ		- list all of the environmental strings of the OS.

	echo <s>	- print string s that user enters to prompt after command.

	help		- print the help manual twenty lines at a time. Press enter to move onto next twenty lines.

	clr		- clears the display

	pause		- pause all operations of shell until user presses enter.

	sleep <t>	- pause the shell for t seconds.

	quit		- stop all processes and quit the shell.

2.			Executing Commands From Batch File
The batch file should have each command on separate line for the shell to interpret correctly.
The file can be read using the following syntax:
	
	>python3 myshell.py commands.bat

Where myshell.py is the shell file, and commands.bat contains the commands to be executed.
Note that this done while launching the shell.


3.			Program Invocation
If the user attempt to enter any command that is not among the internal commands, the shell will interpret it as a program invocation.
The shell will attempt to run the command, if it can't find any program corresponding with it on the system the shell will produce an exception.
See the following examples of how to use invocation:

	(MyShell) python3

	(MyShell) python3 example_program.py

	(MyShell) firefox

This is achieved by forking the shell and running the program through the child process.


4.			Background Execution
A process can be executed in the background by typing an ampersand after a program invocation call.
Example Usage:
	
	(MyShell) spotify &

This causes the process to run as a subproccess in the background, which allows the user to immediatly return to the command prompt.
Background Execution is useful for programs that run constantly such as spotify.


5.			Output Redirection
The output may be redirected for the commands dir, environ, echo and help by typing either a '>' or '>>' followed by a file name after the command.

Example Usage:

	(Myshell) echo the quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog > file_name.txt

	(Myshell) echo What is the airspeed velocity of an unladen swallow? >> file_name.txt

Using the '>' redirect token will create a new file or overwrite a file which already exists with the requested name.
Instead using the '>>' redirect token will append to the existing file rather than overwrite it.
